..  docs/source/developer/new_task_walkthrough_core10.rst

..  Copyright (C) 2012-2020 Rudolf Cardinal (rudolf@pobox.com).
    .
    This file is part of CamCOPS.
    .
    CamCOPS is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
    the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
    (at your option) any later version.
    .
    CamCOPS is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
    GNU General Public License for more details.
    .
    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
    along with CamCOPS. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

New task walkthrough: CORE-10 example
-------------------------------------

(2018-09-28.)

..  contents::
    :local:
    :depth: 3


Basics
~~~~~~

- Starting point: checked out and happily compiling.

- Understand the task.

- Start with the ``.rst`` file.

  - Re the CORE-10: copyright now allows electronic reproduction:
    http://www.coreims.co.uk/copyright.pdf.


Client
~~~~~~

- create class in ``tasks/``.

- find a similar task, or failing that something simple!

- copy/paste/edit header

- at some point should run ``qmake``, as it's a new Q_OBJECT.

- copy/paste/edit ``.cpp`` file, then start to think

- choose tablename

- in constructor: is it anonymous? Does it have a clinician? Does it have a
  respondent?

- for very simple tasks like this, can often just use a N_QUESTIONS format,
  with questions numbered 1 to N_QUESTIONS, and fieldname named ``q1`` to
  ``q<whatever>``.

- diversion: update the task factory, meaning update ``inittasks.cpp`` to
  initialize the task (create the table(s), etc.) during app startup.

- back to main task

- work through calculations

- build ``editor()``

- add it to one or more menus; see ``menu/``

- set the minimum server version; do this for the task, not the whole CamCOPS
  client; this means creating a task function ``minimumServerVersion()``

- bump the client version in ``camcopsversion.cpp``

- and ``changelog.rst`` and all the other things it says in
  ``camcopsversion.cpp``


XML
~~~

- at some point, will want an ``xstring``; create the ``.xml`` file. Since this
  task is freely available, put it in ``server/camcops_server/extra_strings``.


Docs
~~~~

- update docs all-tasks list, ``docs/source/tasks/_tasks_all.rst``

- update docs category task list, ``docs/source/tasks/_tasks_by_category.rst``

- special for CORE-10: remove from "prohibited/missing" list,
  , ``docs/source/tasks/_tasks_missing.rst``

- from the ``docs/`` directory, re-run ``create_all_autodocs.py --make
  --destroy_first``

- check the docs build: from the ``docs/`` directory, run ``rebuild_docs.py``
  or ``make html``

  - you may need to add new autogenerated files in ``docs/source/autodoc/`` to
    the Git repository


Server
~~~~~~

- create Python file: ``camcops_server/tasks/core10.py``

- work through, mirroring calculations on client

- check with PyCharm

- create database revision using ``server/tools/create_database_migration.py``;
  this will create a new file in ``server/camcops_server/alembic/versions``.
  Review this manually!

- note that the revision doesn't contain the new task! So delete it, then...

- edit ``tasks/__init__.py`` to load the task

- create database migration (again...)

- manually review the database migration for sanity

- migration file will need adding to Git repository manually

- upgrade the test database with ``camcops upgrade_db ...``

- launch server


Final
~~~~~

- Test

- Commit!

- When pushed to Github, the live docs will auto-update.
