..  docs/source/administrator/server_front_end_admin.rst

..  Copyright (C) 2012, University of Cambridge, Department of Psychiatry.
    Created by Rudolf Cardinal (rnc1001@cam.ac.uk).
    .
    This file is part of CamCOPS.
    .
    CamCOPS is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
    the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
    (at your option) any later version.
    .
    CamCOPS is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
    GNU General Public License for more details.
    .
    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
    along with CamCOPS. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

.. _FHIR: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fast_Healthcare_Interoperability_Resources
.. _Google Authenticator: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Google_Authenticator
.. _Kapow: https://www.kapow.co.uk/
.. _SMS: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SMS
.. _Twilio Authy: https://authy.com/
.. _Twilio SMS: https://www.twilio.com/sms

.. include:: ../user_server/include_bootstrap_icons.rst

.. _website_admin:

Web site: admin functions
=========================

..  contents::
    :local:
    :depth: 3


.. _task_admin:

Administrative options available for individual tasks
------------------------------------------------------------------

When |view_tasks| :ref:`viewing <view_tasks>` the |html_identifiable| HTML view
of a task, some users will have some of these additional options, shown at the
very bottom:


|special_note| Add special note
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This allows you to apply a textual note to a task, which will be displayed
alongside it in the future. (For example, you could use this feature to mark a
task’s content as disputed, if you are prohibited by policy from deleting
data.)

The note will be visible when viewing all predecessor/successor versions of the
same record.


.. _edit_patient:

|patient_edit| Edit patient details
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This allows you to edit the patient record for this task, and others created
alongside it on the same client device (e.g. if someone has misspelled a name).
The option is only available for finalized tasks.


.. _erase_task_leaving_placeholder:

|delete_major| Erase task instance, leaving placeholder
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This deletes the task’s data (leaving the empty task structure as a
placeholder). Predecessor/successor versions are also erased. Other tasks for
the same patient will not be affected.

Erasure is prohibited for non-finalized tasks (for one thing, the tablet might
re-upload the record). Finalize the records from the tablet (or, if you
absolutely must, :ref:`force-finalize <force_finalize>` them from the server)
first.

When might one want to erase a task? See :ref:`Delete patient entirely
<delete_patient>`.

.. _erase_task_entirely:

|delete_major| Erase task instance entirely
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This is similar to :ref:`Erase task instance, leaving placeholder
<erase_task_leaving_placeholder>` but the task is deleted entirely from the
database, with no placeholder.

This would typically be used in the event of a technical problem
(e.g. to remove duplicates following a network failure during upload).


.. _group_administrator_options:

Group administrator options
---------------------------

These options, on the main menu, are only available to users who are marked as
administrators for one or more groups.


|user_management| User management
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This page shows all users registered with the CamCOPS server. For existing
users, it shows:

- the username (marked to show |you| you in the list);
- their internal user ID number;
- flags, such as |superuser| superuser or |group_admin| group administrator
  status, and if the user is locked out, lockout status with an |unlock|
  **unlock** facility;
- full name;
- e-mail address, hyperlinked to |email_send| **e-mail** them;
- a link to |user_info| **view more details** about the user;
- a link to |edit| **edit** the user;
- groups they belong to, with links to set |user_permissions| **permissions**
  for the user within each group;
- their current upload group, with a button to |upload| **change** their upload
  group;
- links to set their authentication method, including

  - |password_other| **change password** for another user;
  - |password_own| **change password** for |you| yourself;
  - |mfa| **change multi-factor authentication method** for the user;

- a link to |delete| **delete** the user.

There is also a link to |user_add| **add a user**.

By default, autogenerated users (used by patients as part of :ref:`task
scheduling <scheduling_tasks>`) are not shown. They have names that look like
gibberish. However, you can show them if you wish; there's a tickbox to enable
this.

**Who can edit which users?**

Superusers can add, edit, and delete all users.

Group administrators can add users to their group, and edit/delete users who
are in a group that they administer.

More specifically, you may edit any user if you are a superuser. Otherwise, you
may edit a user if (1) they are not a superuser or group administrator, and (2)
you are a group administrator for a group that they’re in.

**What attributes can be set?**

The following are *user* attributes:

- username
- password, and whether this must be changed at next login
- full name
- email
- group membership(s)
- which group the user will currently upload into
- superuser status

The following are attributes of the *user—group association*, i.e. apply
separately to each group the user is in:

- permission to upload from tablets and other client devices
- permission to register tablet/client devices
- permission to log in to the server’s web front end
- permission to browse records from all patients when no patient filter is set
  (if disabled, no records appear in this circumstance)
- permission to perform bulk research data dumps
- permission to run reports
- permission to add special notes to tasks

When adding a user, make sure you give them permission to log in, for at least
one group, if you want them to be able to use the web front end! (You don’t
have to do this, though – for example, some users may have permission only to
upload from tablets, not use the server web interface.)

**Setting MFA for a user**

You may disable multi-factor authentication (MFA) for a user but not change the
method by which they authenticate. If you do this, and MFA is mandatory on the
server (see :ref:`Multi-factor authentication settings
<multi_factor_authentication>`), the user will need to set it up when they next
use CamCOPS.


|email_configure| E-mail addresses of your users
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This simple page shows all e-mail addresses of your users, along with users
whose e-mail addresses are missing.

You can e-mail an individual user by clicking their hyperlink (which will
launch your mail client via a ``mailto:`` URL).

To e-mail all users, copy/paste the list shown into your e-mail client. (There
is no universally accepted standard for multi-recipient ``mailto:`` URLs! See
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/13765286.)


.. _delete_patient:

|delete_major| Delete patient entirely
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This allows you to delete a patient (as identified by an ID number of your
choosing) from a specified group. **All tasks belonging to this patient are
deleted.** This operation is IRREVERSIBLE, so a number of confirmation steps
are required.

.. note::

    **When should records be deleted?**

    This can a complex question. To delete clinical records in the UK, one must
    know the age of the records (e.g. destruction after 30 years), but also
    factors such as whether the patient had a mental disorder within the
    meaning of the Mental Health Act 1983 [#mha]_, or died whilst in the care
    of an NHS organization. See UK Department of Health, 2006, Records
    Management: NHS Code of Practice [#nhsrecmancop]_.

    CamCOPS allows you to view records created before a certain date (e.g.
    created more than 30 years ago), by specifying a suitable end date in the
    search criteria, and for privileged users, this can be done across all
    patients.

    The other criteria for deletion (e.g. mental disorder, death) are outside
    the scope of CamCOPS.


.. _force_finalize:

|force_finalize| Forcibly finalize records for a device
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Here, you can force-finalize records for a device that has been lost or damaged
while it has outstanding business with the CamCOPS server.

Client devices (tablets, or desktop clients) should finalize their own records.
“Finalizing” means saying to the server “I have finished editing these; they’re
all yours.” Tablets erase tasks locally when they finalize them (to minimize
the amount of information stored on mobile devices), though they sometimes keep
a copy of patient/subject identifiers to save typing later if the same patients
will be re-assessed.

If a device is somehow disrupted – broken, CamCOPS uninstalled, device lost
[#devicelost]_ – then you might need to tell the server that the client will no
longer be editing these data. That’s what “forcibly finalizing” is.

After force-finalizing, the finalized versions will be treated as distinct from
any remaining on the tablet, if the tablet is later rescued. That is, this
process marks all records from a particular device (e.g. tablet, or desktop
client) as final, so the device can no longer alter them. If you do this and
the client re-uploads records, they will be created as fresh tasks, so only
force-finalize devices that are no longer in use and to which you no longer
have access.

The option will allow you to proceed even if the patient identification does
not meet the necessary requirements; see also the facility to :ref:`edit
patient details, above <edit_patient>`.


.. _superuser_options:

Superuser options
-----------------

These options are only available to users with the superuser flag set.


.. _group_management:

|groups| Group management
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This option allows you to define groups, define ID policies for groups, and to
configure which groups have intrinsic permission to see which other groups (if
any). See :ref:`Groups <groups>`.

For existing groups, this page shows:

- the group's name;
- its internal ID number;
- its description;
- groups whose data this group is allowed to see (in addition to its own data);
- the upload ID policy;
- the principal (single necessary) ID number required by the upload policy, if
  applicable;
- the finalizing ID policy;
- the principal (single necessary) ID number required by the finalizing policy,
  if applicable;
- a list of group members;
- buttons to |group_edit| **edit** and |delete| **delete** the group.

There is also a link to |group_add| **add a new group**.


|audit_menu| Audit menu
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Here you can

- |audit_options| **configure** then view the CamCOPS |audit_report| **audit
  trail** (with hyperlinks to |html_identifiable| **view a task** where
  relevant);

- |audit_options| **configure** then view the |audit_report| **exported task
  log** (with hyperlinks to the |exported_task| **task export attempt**, the
  |export_recipient| **export recipient**, and the |html_identifiable| **task**
  exported).

  The |exported_task| **task export attempt** may offer further details,
  depending on the export method, such as

  - |audit_item| e-mails sent;
  - |exported_task_entry_collection| FHIR task exports containing |audit_item|
    individual entries (e.g. Patients, Questionnaires, QuestionnaireResponses);
  - |audit_item| files created;
  - |audit_item| HL7 v2 messages sent;
  - |audit_item| REDCap exports.



|id_definitions| ID number definition management
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

CamCOPS supports multiple simultaneous ID numbers. For example:

=============== =========================== =================
ID type number  Description                 Short description
=============== =========================== =================
1               NHS number                  NHS
2               CPFT RiO number             CPFT
3               CUH MRN                     CUH
4               Smith group research ID     RIDSmith
99              Jones group research ID     RIDJones
=============== =========================== =================

See :ref:`patient/subject identification <patient_identification>` for
more background. Here, you can view and edit ID number definitions.

For existing ID number definitions, this shows

- the ID type number (e.g. 1, 2, 3...) *(note: this is the internal CamCOPS
  number representing this type, not a specific patient's ID)*;
- a description (e.g. "NHS number");
- a short description (e.g. "NHS");
- a validation method, if applicable (e.g. CamCOPS knows how to check UK NHS
  numbers for validity using their checksum method);
- for HL7 exports, the HL7 ID Type and HL7 Assigning Authority;
- for FHIR exports, the |info_internal| URL (hyperlinked) used to define this
  ID number (Patient identifier) system;
- buttons to |edit| **edit** and |delete| **delete** the ID number type.

There is also a link to |id_definition_add| **add a new ID number definition**.

There are a few additional options for HL7 (v2) and FHIR messaging:


HL7 Identifier Type
###################

For HL7 v2 messages, you can specify the Identifier Type here. This is  ‘a code
corresponding to the type of identifier. In some cases, this code may be used
as a qualifier to the “Assigning Authority” component.’ See:

- https://hl7-definition.caristix.com/v2/HL7v2.4/Segments/PID
- https://hl7-definition.caristix.com/v2/HL7v2.4/DataTypes/CX
- https://hl7-definition.caristix.com/v2/HL7v2.4/Fields/PID.3.4


HL7 Assigning Authority
#######################

For HL7 v2 messages, you can specify the Assigning Authority here. This is
unique name of the system/organization/agency/department that creates the data.
See:

- https://hl7-definition.caristix.com/v2/HL7v2.4/Segments/PID
- https://hl7-definition.caristix.com/v2/HL7v2.4/DataTypes/CX
- https://hl7-definition.caristix.com/v2/HL7v2.4/Fields/PID.3.5


.. _fhir_id_system_url:

FHIR ID system URL
##################

In the FHIR_ standard, all ID numbers are accompanied by a URL that defines the
identifier "system". You can set this for any ID number.

You should specify this for any "standard" identifier. For example, in the UK,
the standard URL for "NHS number" is ``https://fhir.nhs.uk/Id/nhs-number``.

If you don't specify one, CamCOPS will use a default value (a URL pointing back
to the CamCOPS server).

See:

- https://www.hl7.org/fhir/datatypes.html#Identifier
- https://www.hl7.org/fhir/datatypes-definitions.html#Identifier.system
- https://build.fhir.org/ig/INTEROPen/careconnect-base-stu3/NamingSystem-uk-nhs-number.html


===============================================================================

.. rubric:: Footnotes

.. [#devicelost]
    A disaster; you should hope that the device was encrypted and be slightly
    relieved that CamCOPS data itself is.

.. [#mha]
    UK Mental Health Act 1983:
    https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1983/20/contents. UK Mental Health Act
    2007: https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2007/12/contents.

.. [#nhsrecmancop]
    UK Department of Health, 2006, Records Management: NHS Code of Practice:
    https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/records-management-code-of-practice-for-health-and-social-care
